

Fribourg2014 - Dynamics of viral antagonism and innate immune response (H1N1
influenza A virus - NC/99)

The dynamics of the interplay between the viral antagonism and the innate
immune response has been studied using modelling approaches. The responses of
human monocyte-derived dendritic cells infected by two influenza A H1N1
strains (the pandemic swine-origin A/California/4/2009 (Cal/09) and the
seasonal A/New Caledonia/20/1999 (NC/99)) that have different clinical
outcomes have been modelled. From the time course gene expression measurements
of a set of selected genes, the dynamic features of viral antagonism and
innate immune response are extracted. It is found that the strength and the
time scale of action of viral antagonism is significantly different between
the two viruses. This model describes the viral infection by seasonal NC/99.

This model is described in the article:

[Model of influenza A virus infection: Dynamics of viral antagonism and innate
immune response.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/24594370)

Fribourg M, Hartmann B, Schmolke M, Marjanovic N, Albrecht RA, Garc√≠a-Sastre
A, Sealfon SC, Jayaprakash C, Hayot F.

J Theor Biol. 2014 Mar 2;351C:47-57.

Abstract:

Viral antagonism of host responses is an essential component of virus
pathogenicity. The study of the interplay between immune response and viral
antagonism is challenging due to the involvement of many processes acting at
multiple time scales. Here we develop an ordinary differential equation model
to investigate the early, experimentally measured, responses of human
monocyte-derived dendritic cells to infection by two H1N1 influenza A viruses
of different clinical outcomes: pandemic A/California/4/2009 and seasonal
A/New Caledonia/20/1999. Our results reveal how the strength of virus
antagonism, and the time scale over which it acts to thwart the innate immune
response, differs significantly between the two viruses, as is made clear by
their impact on the temporal behavior of a number of measured genes. The model
thus sheds light on the mechanisms that underlie the variability of innate
immune responses to different H1N1 viruses.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1403310001](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1403310001).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

